14, verse 15. Luke 14, verse 1
Now when one of those who sat at the table with him heard these things, he said to him,
"'Blessed is he who shall eat bread in the kingdom of God.'"
Then he said to him,
A certain man
1990, gave a great supper and invited many.
And sent his servant at supper time to say to those who were invited, Come.
For all things,
Are now ready
But they all, with one accord, began to make excuses.
The first said to him,
I have bought a piece of ground.
I must go.
And see it.
I ask you to have me excused.
And another said,
I have bought five yoke of oxen and I'm going to test them.
I ask you to have me excused.
Still another said,
I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come. Amen.
So that servant came and reported these things to his master.
Then the master of the house, being angry, said to his servant,
Go out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in here the poor and the maimed and the lame and the blind.
And the servant said,
Master
It is done as you commanded,
and still
There is room.
Then the master said to the servant,
Go out into the highways and hedges.
And compel them
To come in.
20,000 that my house may be filled.
For I say to you,
That none of those men who were invited.
Shall taste my supper.
This is the word of God for the people of God.
Amen. Amen. May God add his blessing to the reading of the word. You may be seated. Amen.
I almost called this sermon
The clarification.
Because there's some things about this text that I have not shared with you.
that are going to add some depth to it. As a matter of fact, next Sunday we get to spend one more
Time,, if you will,, one more moment, looking at it,
And this clarification today is going to help you understand also
We're going to talk about next Sunday as well.
Jesus tells this parable
But he doesn't tell it.
Without being prompted.
as we read in verse
Fifteen.
One of those at the table with him.
Said,
"'Blessed is he who shall eat bread, or shall sit down to feast in the kingdom of God.'"
And Jesus says, who's going to be there?
Who are the blessed?
and he talks about that in response to that.
And this man says, blessed is he or the one.
Who shall eat bread? And the one we learn is,
Whosoever.
This man
When he said it,
Was talking about.
Himself.
He thought, I'm going to be there, therefore I'm blessed, and blessed is he because it's me who's going to be there. And Jesus says, let me tell you who's really going to be there, sir. So you don't get a big deal.
Get a big head.
So you really understand.
Now he wasn't asking a question, but Jesus clarifies what the man said.
Now you say well how do you know this well let's look at the first half of the chapter which we've not done yet
1999, the first half of the chapter, it has a man on the Sabbath who
Um,
With a man who has drops of heel,
and Jesus
Is looking and they're watching him
As he asked them a question, is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath?
And they did not answer.
And so Jesus heals him and then lets him go.
And then he says, which of you having a donkey or an ox that falls into a pit will not immediately pull him out on the Sabbath day? this is a good thing.
that I've healed this man
That I've restored him.
And they could not answer him regarding these things because they were trying
To keep the law on the sabbath by not doing certain things,
But they would violate their own laws they set up.
To protect the Knox, but they wouldn't allow a human being to be healed.
And if they would have said that,
They would have exposed themselves for who they really are.
See, Jesus was doing an expose on their motives.
And who they are in this chapter.
And then he tells them,
Parable, they go, they're at a feast now.
And there are people who are invited to it.
And he says,
when he notes how people are this is the feast that this conversation happens over this parable that people are coming in and taking the best seats
And he looks at him and says,
When you're invited to a wedding feast, this is why I tell you the parable is about a wedding,
Do you not sit down in a blessed place less when more honorable than you be invited?
and he invites you to say sit in this lower place and with shame move you down but we are invited to go to the lowest place.
And then let someone exalt you to a higher place.
In other words what he's saying is
Take the low road.
Go to the low place.
and let someone else lift you up rather than you saying this is what i deserve.
Say, I will let whoever runs the feast determine that, not me.
He says, if you do that, then you will have glory in the presence of those who sit at the table with you.
Before you've been invited up to be with them.
And whoever exalts himself that's why he says this in this 11th verse whoever exalts himself will be humbled and he who humbles himself
Will be exalted.
And then another person was sitting there and he looked at him and he said, when you give a dinner or supper, do not ask your friends, your brothers, your relatives, your rich neighbors, lest they also invite you back and you
Can you be repaid?
And this is what he says.
When you give a feast,
This is gonna sound familiar
Invite the poor.
The maimed.
The lane.
The blind.
Same ones that are in this feast, in this parable.
He says invite them and you will be blessed
Because I cannot repay you.
For you shall be repaid.
At the resurrection of the just.
Interesting how all that fits. Now this parable comes where...
These people are making excuses that they can't come to that great feast.
and so the poor, the maimed, the lame, and the blind come.
But I want to share something with you.
This parable mirrors.
1 in Matthew 22.
He says the kingdom of heaven
It's like a certain king who arranged a marriage for his son.
And sent out his servants to call those who were invited to the wedding, and they were not willing to come.
It sounded like the excuses, right? Yeah.
again he sent out other servants saying tell those who were invited see i prepared my dinner my aunts and fadiketh
are killed and all things are ready to come to the wedding.
In verse 5 in Matthew 22.
But those also made light.
Of it.
They made fun of the dinner.
And they went their ways, one to his farm,
And another to his business.
Sounds exactly like the excuses. they made light of the invitation.
Not knowing what they were invited to.
And so that parable would be in their mind as they heard this.
But what we don't get,
And what we miss in this parable
is what happens
When the?
Ones who are in the hedges, in the highways that aren't
Part of society is mainstream, or even on the fringes of onesie outcasts, the prisoners, this.
The desperately violent.
The mentally ill, all those that he pulls in.
and invites them to the feast.
And the house is filled with all these broken people who are who can't pay the host back for this great dinner by returning the favor.
What do you think happens when they all sit down?
And the host says,
You are welcome here.
How do you think they
I feel when they realize this is really happening. This is really happening.
They I have in joy.
This is really happening. it's not a dream. it's not something I'm made of.
The celebration that they have is a celebration that should have happened by those who were invited.
They should have been saying this is the greatest thing
For them, it is no other honor greater than this for their life.
they've been exalted to the highest place in the highest of societies in the jet set if you will
The true blue, high flying, high fluting, tooting people, and they are welcomed and treated as such.
it is not expected.
They are at the lowest and raised to the highest.
and they celebrate like there's no other celebration they'll ever be at so they're going to celebrate for all they're worth because they know they'll never be invited to another.
this is exactly the invitation
That the kind of celebration was intended to have happen with those who were originally invited, but they considered themselves.
Too good.
or the invitation too weak.
Are too irrelevant to their daily life.
The ones who celebrate are those who see it as a celebration.
Jesus Christ's birth is a celebration to those who know what it means.
it is not a celebration to those who do not.
they refuse the invitation to celebrate
The birth of Christ is preparation for the wedding feast in the end of eternity. It's the beginning of redemption. It has to happen for that to happen.
And that happened.
That's why we celebrated. it's why it's supernatural to show that this is a supernatural birth. there's going to be a supernatural life and a supernatural ending.
Those who accept the invitation to celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ,
Have also
Accepted.
The invitation
To the wedding.
if you don't accept the birth you don't accept
The wedding.
Because one is part of the other.
And if you don't accept the birth, you don't accept this crucifixion and resurrection is historical because those are supernatural.
And all of a sudden you have to dismiss everything Christ did and why he came.
But the bible tells us clearly
If the message of the gospel is foolish, the message of the cross is foolish to those who are perishing.
But to those who are being saved through this process,
It is the power of God.
The wedding invitation.
When you intend the birth,
And accept the resurrection.
And live that life.
Is expected.
And the shepherds
Who are the lowliest?
Got to go first.
The lowest who lived out with sheep.
Unclean.
Not washed.
They came dirty.
And they were welcomed and expected.
At the presence of the murk
So if they're welcomed,
Broken dirty
Unclean.
Unworthy according to society in the presence of the birth,
They're welcome for crucifixion.
Welcome to the resurrection
And they are invited.
By the master.
To the wedding.
To be the bride of Christ.
This is why we celebrate, because he included all of us.
We are.
A part of that celebration. And this morning,
As we lighted the Christ candle, it reminds us
The light has overcome the darkness.
The darkness cannot overcome it.
The light of the world has come. And because of that, we who understand who Jesus is and what he did and what he's doing in and through us and for us, so
2.
Without this birth, it does not happen.
But with it,
All these things are possible.
And praise God for that.
are you a part of the celebration or not? that's the question you must answer and celebrate it well.
Would you pray with me?
Gracious Heavenly Father, thank you that you call this by name.
You invited us one by one to celebrate the birth
To receive the redemption,
And to be invited to be the bride of Christ.
Lord, may we never take light of that.
I mean, we never say it's less than that.
The lord
We couldn't come.
Unless you invited us.
May we never forget the gravity.
The sincerity
And the value
Of that invitation.
Life's golden ticket.
Thank you for that.
Hey, man.
So stand far, close to him.